# Architecture

Our benchmarking framework is designed to support all types of different frameworks.
We specify a generic set of interfaces, such that benchmarks can be invoked through 
a configuration file `config.json`, which produces a standardized output 
for a given benchmarking scenario.

## Overview

On a high level, zk-Harness takes as input a configuration file. 
The “Config Reader” reads the standardized config and invokes the ZKP framework 
as specified in the configuration file. You can find a description of the 
configuration file below. Each integrated ZKP framework exposes a runner 
that take as an input the standardized configuration parameters to execute the 
corresponding benchmarks. The output of benchmarking a given ZKP framework 
is a log file in csv format with standardized metrics. 
The log file is read by the “Log Analyzer”, 
which compiles the logs into pandas dataframes that are used by the front-
end and displayed on the public website. You can find the standardized logging 
format in the following.

### Config.json

The ``config.json`` file contains information about what benchmarks to execute when invoking the zk-Harness. The following describes how to run benchmarks given a specific config file. Further, we specify each of the keys in a common config file and their expected values.

## Running benchmarks for a specific config file

Given a config file, you can run ``python3 -m _scripts.reader --config path/to/config.json`` to run the benchmarks defined by a given config file.

## config.json key specification

### `project`

The name of the project being benchmarked.

### `project_url`

The URL(s) to the repository for the project.

### `category`

The category for which the zk-Harness should benchmark a ZKP-framework. 
Currently, it supports only `circuit`.

### `count`

The number of runs over which a given computation specified by the config should be averaged.
This option is taken under consideration only if the benchmarking is performed
manually and not through a benchmarking framework such as criterion.

### `payload`

`payload` specifies the exact algorithms to benchmark. 
  - `backend`
    The backend algorithm(s) to use for proving the specified circuit(s).
  - `curves`
    The curve(s) for which the ZKP-framework should be benchmarked.
  - `circuits`
    The name of the circuit to benchmark. 
    Equivalent circuits across frameworks should have the same naming scheme for 
    ease of comparison.
    If a new circuit is added, which does not yet exist in any framework, 
    one should create a new input specification in the 
    `input/circuit/<circuit_name>/input_<input_related_identifier>.json`.
  - `algorithm`
    The algorithm to execute. Note that not all algorithms exist for every framework.
    Valid algorithms to execute in a given framework are currently:
    - `compile`
    - `setup`
    - `witness`
    - `prove`
    - `verify`

    If a given algorithm is not specified for the configured framework, 
    the execution will fail.

## Logs

In the following sections, we describe the columns in the CSV file for each benchmark category.
Note that for "Field Arithmetic" and "Elliptic Curve Group Operations", the logs
are generated by the front-end and used only for displaying data in the UI.

### Circuits

The following information is recorded for each circuit benchmark:

* framework: the name of the framework (e.g., gnark)
* category: the category of the benchmark (i.e., circuit)
* backend: the backend used (e.g., groth16)
* curve: the curve used (e.g., bn256)
* circuit: the circuit being run
* input: file path of the input used 
* operation: the step being measured -- compile, witness, setup, prove, verify 
* nbConstraints: the number of constraints in the circuit
* nbSecret: number of secret inputs
* nbPublic: number of public inputs
* ram: memory consumed in **bytes**
* time: elapsed time in **milliseconds**
* proofSize: the size of the proof in **bytes** -- empty value when `operation != prove`
* count: number of times that we run the benchmark

### Field Arithmetic

The following information is recorded for each field arithmetic benchmark:

* framework: the name of the framework (e.g., gnark)
* category: the category of the benchmark (i.e., arithmetic)
* curve: the curve of which field we use
* field: the benchmarked field (base or scalar)
* operation: the operation performed (add, sub, mul, inv, exp)
* time: elapsed time in **nanoseconds**
* count: number of times that we run the benchmark

### Elliptic Curve Group Operations

The following information is recorded for each elliptic curve group operation benchmark:

* framework: the name of the framework (e.g., gnark)
* category: the category of the benchmark (i.e., ec)
* curve: the benchmarked curve
* operation: the operation performed -- `g1-scalar-multiplicationg`, `g2-scalar-multiplication`, `g1-multi-scalar-multiplication`, `g2-multi-scalar-multiplication`, `pairing`
* input: Provided input
* time: elapsed time in **nanoseconds**
* count: number of times that we run the benchmark

## Adding a new framework to the zk-Harness

To integrate a framework, one should follow the following steps:

1. First, fork the `zk-harness` repository
2. Create a `frameworks/<framework_name>` folder in the root folder of the repository.
3. Create a custom benchmarking script that *(i)* reads from the standardized 
input of the `config.json` and outputs *(ii)* the standardized logs.
    * For example, benchmarking for `gnark` is done through a custom CLI, 
    based on [cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)
    * Your script should be able to take a variety of arguments as specified in 
    the `config.json`, such that benchmarks can be easily executed and extended. 
    For example, a common command in the gnark integration would be 
    `./gnark groth16 --circuit=sha256 --input=_input/circuit/sha256/input_3.json --curve=bn254`
4. Modify the `src/reader/process_circuit.py` scripts to include your newly 
created script as described in step 3, which is called if the `project` field of 
the respective config contains the `<framework_name>` of your newly added ZKP framework.
  * The `src/reader/process_circuit.py` processing python scripts are invoked by 
  `__main__.py`.
5. Create a documentation in the `frameworks/<framework_name>/README.md` 
to outline how others can include new circuits / benchmarks for another circuit 
in the framework. 
6. Add config files for running the benchmarks in `input/config/<framework_name>` 
and add make rules for the new framework in the Makefile.

If you follow the specified interfaces for config and logs, 
your framework specific benchmarking should seamlessly integrate into the zk-Harness frontend.

Once finished, please create a Pull Request and assign it to one of the maintainers 
for review.
